>> Brian Holt: Let's hop in and
start writing some React so
that we can eventually make Padre Gino's.
So you can see here, I'm in my
complete intro to React V9 project.
The way I'm gonna do this is I'm just
gonna make a new directory in here,
and I'm just gonna start
working out of that directory.
I think that's just gonna
be the easiest for me.
Yeah, let's do that.
We'll just called Padre Gino's,
cuz that's what we're gonna make, okay?
And then I'm gonna open
this in my VS Code editor.
So Padre Gino's, empty directory.
We're gonna make a index.html.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and we're gonna
start building React with no build step.
So we're gonna write React the way that
I don't know of anyone that actually
writes React without a build step, but
I wanna show you that it is
actually indeed possible.
So one of my favorite cheat codes in
VS Code is that there's Emmet built in.
So I can just say, html:5, and
then I can just hit Tab, and
it just generates a valid
HTML document for me.
So I'm gonna do that.
And I'm gonna call this Padre Gino's.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then I'm
gonna have a div that's gonna be root.
And I like to put something in here
because this will get replaced.
And so if you see not rendered on
the page, you know something went wrong.
>> Brian Holt: And then we're gonna
put a couple of script tags on here.
So we're gonna do
script, source.
If I were you, I would just grab these
directly from my page here cuz otherwise,
it's really annoying to write by hand.
>> Brian Holt: Unpkg was actually created
by one of the React router authors,
and it's basically just a CDN
full of every NPM package.
It's really nice.
You can do things like this where you can
just load things directly off the CDN and
get started with something off of NPM
with no build step, which is kinda fun.
So unpkg.com,
we're getting from react18.3.1.
Umd stands for
universal module definition, and
we're grabbing react and react-dom.
Just a quick note on why
there's two packages.
React is the universal interface for
React, so things like React Native,
React 3D, React 360,
all of those use the same React package.
And then the actual rendering layer
underneath it that's specific
to the browser is called React-DOM.
So if you're ever working in a browser,
you'll always just have
these two packages.
If you're working in React Native, you'll
have a different React Native toolkit, but
it'll still use the same React package.
Okay, I'm gonna save that, and
then I'm gonna open my terminal here.
And we can do a fun little trick here
that I'll do, npx serve, just like that.
>> Brian Holt: It'll ask you,
is it okay if I install this package, and
you can say yes.
And this will actually just start
serving it directly on port 3000 here,
and you can see I'm getting
this page up on localhost:3000.
There's a trillion ways to
run a local host server.
This is just a very fast one using Node.
But you could do php-s, there's a Python
one, you can run NGINX via Docker.
You could literally just open
this directly with Cmd+O, and
open it in the browser.
So we have this, it's opening on our page,
it's using Serve.
Serve is made by Vercel,
in case you were curious.
You get some nice little server logs here,
it's kinda fun.
We have our two script tags here.
Unpkg from React and React-DOM.
And the last one, we're gonna
put one more script tag on here,
and this is just gonna
go to ./source/App.js.
>> Brian Holt: As you might imagine,
we're gonna create a directory here.
We're gonna call it src, and
we're gonna create a file in there, and
it's gonna be called App.js.
So inside of App.js, we're going to
create our very first React component.
So we're gonna say, const app =,
I'm just gonna do an arrow function here.
If you've never seen this fat arrow
before, this is my ligature combining,
which is the font, right, combining
in equal signs and an angle bracket.
That's what a ligature is.
I left a note in my setup part of the
course, if you wanna know how to do that.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then I'm gonna return React,
nope, not that, createElement.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then we're
gonna put in a div, an empty object.
You also could put an all here,
both of those are fine.
And then another
React.createElement of an h1
empty object, and
whatever you wanna call it.
I'm gonna call mine Padre Gino's.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, then we're gonna
go down here and say const container.
We're gonna grab this, where did I put it?
This one, root, right?
So we're gonna say,
const container = document.
>> Brian Holt: getElementById("root").
Const root =
ReactDOM.createRoot(container).
And then we're gonna say,
root.render(React.createElement(App)).
>> Brian Holt: That's it, that is your
very first React app right there.
What do we expect to happen?
This is my favorite question before, and
I do this all the time
when I'm writing code.
Before I Click Save and run and
see what happens, I always ask myself,
what do I expect to happen
before I run over there?
Well, I have an app thing.
You might call it a component.
I don't know, if you're feeling spicy,
you could call it a component.
And it's a type of component, and
it returns whatever the result
of this createElement is.
I'm gonna guess that
React.createElement returns an element.
I don't know where I got that, but
it's probably a good bet there.
And there's gonna be a div.
This thing, it's like attributes, so
it's probably not gonna have an ID,
or a class, or a for, or
anything like that on it.
And then inside of it,
there's gonna be an H1 that's gonna
say Padre Gino's inside of it.
This is going to be rendered inside
of the root ID div on the page.
All right, let's go see if we're right.
>> Brian Holt: Pretty cool, right?
Let's see if we were actually correct.
We have a div.
Let's see if I can make these
dev tools a little bit bigger.
>> Brian Holt: There's ID root there,
right?
That's the one that we first
put on the HTML doc, and
then there's a div inside of that.
There's an h1 inside of that, and
there's a Padre Gino's inside of that.
Kinda what we expected, right?
All right, you're done,
let's call it a day.
[LAUGH] No, I'm just kidding,
there's a few more things
to React than just this.
But I'm also gonna say, this is kinda
most of React, which is kinda cool.
The principal core iteration loop is
not terribly complicated with React,
which is one of my
favorite parts about it.
>> Brian Holt: So React is all
about making components, right?
We made this app component that every time
that you call it, you're gonna get a div,
an h1 inside of it, and
a text in there that says Padre Gino's.
And right now, you can see that
we're using createElement again,
the exact same one.
Here we gave it a string, right, and
that gave us the actual
literal div tag on the page.
So we have the div, we have the h1,
and then we have this component.
I like to compare this to a stamp, right?
So we made this app stamp, and now we can
go stamp it as many times as we want,
right, cuz it's a reusable component.
You could imagine you have a pizza one
cuz that's what we're literally about to
create here in just a minute.
And if you have five different types of
pizza, you can stamp it out five different
times, but
you're creating your little stamp here.
And then what createElement does,
the only thing that it does is it
just stamps the stamp once, right?
So I'm calling the React.createElement
here with app, and I'm just saying,
hey, inside of route,
go stamp app once, right?
And you get an instance of the class or
an instance of the component.
So, element instance, you can kind of
associate those two words together,
component class, you can kind of
associate those two words together.
If you're an object-oriented programmer,
that'll make a lot of sense to you,
if you're not, you're just saying words
now and making me feel weird, right?
I get it, anyway, app reusable component,
that's the part that you really
wanna take away from this.